README.md, before:

﻿# Career Search Assistant Monorepo

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-success.svg)]()
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](/LICENSE)

---

## Purpose

This repository is a full-stack monorepo for a career search assistant. The backend (NestJS) handles authentication, user intake, document uploads to Google Cloud Storage (GCS), PDF text extraction, AI profile generation (Gemini via Vertex AI), and job matching. The admin frontend is React 19 + Vite. Shared packages include Drizzle ORM schemas, UI components, and lint/TS configs.

This README is designed to be the primary source of context for both humans and LLMs. It describes the current workflow, data model, endpoints, and development setup.

## System Architecture (High Level)

Core services:
- API (NestJS): auth, profile inputs, documents, extraction, AI profile, matching
- Worker service (planned): background jobs and scraping/ingestion
- Frontend (planned): Next.js app for user workflows

Scraping note:
- Job scraping will be a separate worker service, not part of the API monolith.
- The worker will ingest jobs, normalize them, and store them in the DB for matching.

## Service Communication and Data Flow

Architecture approach:
- **HTTP-driven for user actions** (Frontend → API).
- **Job/worker-driven for background tasks** (Worker → DB + storage).
- In early stages, keep it **request/response** for simplicity.
- As scale grows, move to **event-driven** (queue + jobs) for extraction and AI.

Primary data flow:
1) Frontend → API (profile input, upload URL, confirm, extract, generate, match).
2) API ↔ GCS (signed upload URL, confirm, download for extraction).
3) Worker → External sources (job ingestion).
4) Worker → DB (normalized jobs).
5) API → DB (fetch jobs for matching and UI display).

Suggested integration pattern:
- Use a queue (BullMQ / Cloud Tasks / Pub/Sub) for:
  - PDF extraction
  - Gemini generation
  - Crawling and job normalization
- API enqueues jobs; worker processes and updates DB.

## Operational Workflow

User-facing flow:
1) Login/Register
2) Submit profile input
3) Upload PDF → confirm
4) Extract text
5) Generate profile (markdown + JSON)
6) Score a job description or display matches

Background flow (worker):
1) Crawl job boards or ingest feeds
2) Normalize job records
3) Store in DB and mark ready for matching

Failure handling guidelines:
- Endpoints should be idempotent where possible.
- Background tasks should retry with backoff.
- Errors should be stored and surfaced to the frontend.

## Data Ownership and Boundaries

API-owned tables (source of truth):
- `users`, `profiles`, `profile_inputs`, `documents`, `career_profiles`
- These are created/updated by API endpoints only.

Worker-owned tables (planned):
- `jobs`, `job_sources`, `job_ingestion_runs`, `job_matches`
- These are created/updated by the worker service and consumed by the API.

Cross-service interactions:
- API reads `jobs` to show results and enable matching.
- Worker never modifies user/auth tables.

## Production Readiness Checklist

Secrets and config:
- Store service account keys and DB creds in a secrets manager.
- Never commit real keys to git.
- Keep separate envs for dev/staging/prod.

Monitoring and observability:
- Enable structured logs and central logging.
- Track background job failures with alerts.
- Add request tracing IDs to API logs.

Database operations:
- Migrations applied in CI/CD before deploy.
- Backups enabled for managed DB.
- Clear rollback plan for failed migrations.

Security:
- JWT secrets rotated periodically.
- Rate limit auth endpoints.
- Restrict CORS to allowed domains in production.

Scalability:
- Move extraction and AI generation to async jobs.
- Use queue-based backpressure to avoid overload.

## Scraping/Job Ingestion Plan (Worker Service)

Purpose:
- Ingest job postings from external sources (e.g., pracuj.pl) into the DB.
- Normalize fields so matching is consistent across sources.

Implementation outline:
1) **Crawler/Fetcher**
   - Fetch listings via allowed methods (public API, RSS, or HTML if permitted).
   - Respect robots.txt and ToS; add rate limits and caching.
2) **Parser**
   - Extract structured fields: title, company, location, salary, tech stack, apply link.
   - Normalize data (e.g., currency, location, seniority).
3) **Storage**
   - Write to `jobs` table and track in `job_ingestion_runs`.
   - Use `job_sources` to store source metadata (base URL, crawl rules).
4) **Scheduler**
   - Run on schedule (Cloud Scheduler → Pub/Sub → Worker).
   - Persist run status and failures for monitoring.

Recommended data schema (worker-owned):
- `jobs`: id, source_id, title, company, location, salary, description, url, tags, created_at, updated_at
- `job_sources`: id, name, base_url, crawl_rules, enabled
- `job_ingestion_runs`: id, source_id, started_at, finished_at, status, error

Notes:
- Start with manual job URLs or a single source for MVP.
- Only expand crawling after legal/ToS validation.

## Scraper Worker Starter Template (Node + Playwright)

Why Playwright:
- Works with dynamic pages and modern JS-heavy sites.
- Can simulate real browser behavior with rate control.

Suggested stack:
- Node.js + Playwright
- Cheerio (optional) for HTML parsing
- BullMQ / PubSub for scheduling and retries
- Zod for validation of extracted fields

Suggested folder layout:
```
worker/
  src/
    sources/
      pracuj-pl/
        crawl.ts        # page navigation
        parse.ts        # extract fields
        normalize.ts    # normalize data
    jobs/
      run-source.ts     # orchestrate one source
    db/
      client.ts         # db connection
    index.ts
```

Per-source workflows:
- Yes, each source should have its own workflow to match its HTML structure.
- Keep a thin, consistent interface:
  - `crawl(): rawHtml[]`
  - `parse(rawHtml): JobRecord`
  - `normalize(job): NormalizedJob`
- This isolates breakage when a site changes its layout.
--- 

## High-Level Workflow

1) User authenticates (JWT)
2) User submits profile input (target roles + notes)
3) User uploads PDF documents (CV/LinkedIn) to GCS via signed URL
4) User confirms upload
5) User extracts PDF text into DB
6) User generates a career profile (markdown + JSON)
7) User scores a job description using the profile JSON

---

## Repository Structure

```
apps/
  admin/               # Frontend admin panel (React 19 + Vite)
  api/                 # NestJS backend service
packages/
  db/                  # Drizzle schemas, migrations, seed scripts
  ui/                  # Shared React UI library (shadcn/ui)
  lint-config/         # Shared ESLint configuration
  ts-config/           # Shared TypeScript configurations
```

---

## Domain Model (Current)

Minimal, LLM-first model:

- User: authenticated identity
- ProfileInput: user intent (target roles + notes)
- Document: uploaded PDF metadata stored in GCS + extracted text
- CareerProfile: AI-generated markdown + JSON

Tables (simplified):
- profile_inputs: user_id, target_roles, notes
- documents: user_id, type, storage_path, original_name, mime_type, size, uploaded_at, extracted_text, extracted_at
- career_profiles: user_id, profile_input_id, document_ids, status, content, content_json, model, error

## Database Schema (High-Level)

Current tables (API-owned):
- `users` → `profiles` (1:1)
- `users` → `profile_inputs` (1:many)
- `users` → `documents` (1:many)
- `users` → `career_profiles` (1:many)
- `profile_inputs` → `career_profiles` (1:many)

Planned tables (worker-owned):
- `job_sources` (1:many) → `jobs`
- `job_ingestion_runs` (1:many) → `job_sources`
- `users` (1:many) → `job_matches` → (many:1) `jobs`

Ownership rules:
- The API owns user/profile data.
- The worker owns job ingestion data.
- Matching reads from both domains.

---

## API Overview

All API routes are prefixed by `/api` (see `API_PREFIX`). Examples are in `apps/api/api.http`.

Auth:
- POST `/auth/login`
- POST `/auth/register`
- POST `/auth/logout`
- POST `/auth/send-register-code`
- POST `/auth/send-reset-password-code`
- POST `/auth/change-password`
- POST `/auth/reset-password`

Profile input:
- POST `/profile-inputs`
- GET `/profile-inputs/latest`

Documents:
- POST `/documents/upload-url` (returns signed GCS URL + document record)
- PUT  `<signed upload url>` (upload PDF)
- POST `/documents/confirm` (verifies object exists in GCS)
- POST `/documents/extract` (download PDF, extract text into DB)
- POST `/documents/sync` (sync DB with actual GCS objects for user)
- DELETE `/documents/:id` (delete object in GCS and DB)
- GET `/documents` (optional `?type=CV|LINKEDIN|OTHER`)

Career profiles:
- POST `/career-profiles` (Gemini generation, stores markdown + JSON)
- GET `/career-profiles/latest`

Job matching:
- POST `/job-matching/score` (scores job description using profile JSON)

---

## Services and Modules

Backend modules (NestJS):
- AuthModule: login/register/reset flows
- ProfileInputsModule: stores target roles + notes
- DocumentsModule: GCS signed URLs, confirm, extract, sync, delete
- CareerProfilesModule: Gemini generation + storage
- JobMatchingModule: score job description using profile JSON
- GeminiModule: Vertex AI Gemini client
- GcsModule: GCS client wrapper

DB access:
- Drizzle ORM via `packages/db` and `@repo/db`

---

## AI Integration (Vertex AI)

Gemini is accessed through Vertex AI using service account credentials (OAuth). API key auth is not used in this setup.

Required:
- `GCP_PROJECT_ID`
- `GCP_LOCATION` (e.g., `us-central1`)
- Service account credentials (see env below)

Model:
- `GEMINI_MODEL=gemini-1.5-flash` (default)

If you get a 404 model error, switch to a region where the model is available (use `us-central1` as a safe default).

---

## Environment Variables

### apps/api/.env
Required:
- `DATABASE_URL`
- `ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET`
- `ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRATION`
- `REFRESH_TOKEN_SECRET`
- `REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRATION`
- `GCS_BUCKET`
- `GCP_PROJECT_ID`
- `GCP_LOCATION`

Optional (local service account direct values):
- `GCP_CLIENT_EMAIL`
- `GCP_PRIVATE_KEY`

Health:
- `DISK_HEALTH_THRESHOLD` (0-1)

Email:
- `MAIL_HOST`, `MAIL_PORT`, `MAIL_USERNAME`, `MAIL_PASSWORD`, `MAIL_SECURE`

Other:
- `HOST`, `PORT`, `NODE_ENV`, `ALLOWED_ORIGINS`, `API_PREFIX`

### packages/db/.env
- `DATABASE_URL`

---

## Local Development

### Install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/DmytroQasttor/Collarcity.git
cd Collarcity
pnpm install
```

### Configure .env

```bash
cp apps/api/.env.example apps/api/.env
cp apps/admin/.env.example apps/admin/.env
cp packages/db/.env.example packages/db/.env
```

Set `DATABASE_URL`, `GCP_PROJECT_ID`, `GCP_LOCATION`, and `GCS_BUCKET`.

### Start database

```bash
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

### Run migrations

```bash
pnpm --filter @repo/db generate
pnpm --filter @repo/db migrate
pnpm --filter @repo/db build
```

### Run backend only

```bash
pnpm --filter api start
```

### Run full dev

```bash
pnpm start
```

---

## GCS Upload Flow (Details)

1) `POST /documents/upload-url`
2) Upload PDF to signed URL (PUT)
3) `POST /documents/confirm`
4) `POST /documents/extract`

Use `apps/api/api.http` for sample requests.

---

## Career Profile Generation (Details)

- The prompt asks for markdown plus a JSON block.
- The JSON is stored in `career_profiles.content_json`.
- Job matching uses this JSON for quick scoring.

JSON schema:
```
{
  "summary": string,
  "coreSkills": string[],
  "preferredRoles": string[],
  "strengths": string[],
  "gaps": string[]
}
```

---

## Known Behaviors and Gotchas

- `GET /health` checks disk usage; set `DISK_HEALTH_THRESHOLD` if your drive is near full.
- `POST /documents/confirm` requires a valid UUID document ID.
- PDF extraction uses `pdf-parse`. Some minimal PDFs may fail; use real PDFs.
- Gemini requires Vertex AI credentials (service account) and correct region.

---

## Testing and Debugging

- API examples: `apps/api/api.http`
- Swagger (non-production): `/docs`
- Logs: `apps/api/logs/`

---

## Roadmap (Step-by-Step, Small Tasks)

Each task is scoped to ~300–500 LOC to keep changes focused.

### Phase 1 — Complete V1 Backend + DB

1) **Profile versioning**
   - Add `version` and `is_active` to `career_profiles`.
   - New profile increments version; previous active is set to false.
   - `GET /career-profiles/latest` returns active only.

2) **Profile JSON schema consistency**
   - Enforce JSON keys: `summary`, `coreSkills`, `preferredRoles`, `strengths`, `gaps`, `topKeywords`.
   - Validate shape and store parse errors in `career_profiles.error`.
   - Add `topKeywords` generation in prompt.

3) **Matching quality pass**
   - Weighted scoring (roles 40%, skills 40%, strengths 20%).
   - Add explanation field to response.
   - Optional `minScore` filter in request body.

4) **Document metadata management**
   - Add `GET /documents/:id`.
   - Add `PATCH /documents/:id` to update `type` and `originalName`.
   - Keep file immutable; only metadata changes.

5) **Extraction status**
   - Add `extraction_status` enum (PENDING/READY/FAILED).
   - Store parser errors in `documents.extracted_text` or separate `extraction_error`.

6) **Error response consistency**
   - Map errors to `code + message`.
   - Ensure 400 for validation, 404 for missing records, 500 for internal.

7) **Swagger pass**
   - Add DTO decorators and endpoint docs for all routes.
   - Include request/response examples.

8) **Security hardening**
   - Ensure JWT guard on all private endpoints.
   - Rate limit auth endpoints.
   - Validate CORS origins.

9) **DB migration cleanup**
   - Normalize column naming if needed.
   - Verify migrations are linear and committed.

### Phase 2 — Frontend (Next.js)

10) **Choose a frontend boilerplate**
    - Find a ready-to-go Next.js boilerplate with TanStack Query.
    - Prefer Tailwind + shadcn/ui.
    - Align structure with monorepo.

11) **Remove current admin app**
    - Delete `apps/admin`.
    - Update `pnpm-workspace.yaml` and `turbo.json`.

12) **Add Next.js app**
    - Create `apps/web` from the chosen boilerplate.
    - Keep TanStack Query as the main client state layer.
    - Wire workspace builds in Turbo.

13) **Auth UI (minimal)**
    - Login/Register screens.
    - JWT storage and session handling.
    - Minimal error states.

14) **Profile input UI**
    - Form for target roles + notes.
    - Show latest input and history.

15) **Document upload UI**
    - Upload via signed URL.
    - Confirm + extract actions.
    - Show status and errors.

16) **Profile generation UI**
    - Trigger generation.
    - Show markdown and JSON (collapsed).

17) **Job matching UI**
    - Paste job description.
    - Show score + explanation.

### Phase 3 — CI/CD + GCP

18) **Dockerize API**
    - Dockerfile + .dockerignore for `apps/api`.
    - Cloud Run compatible build.

19) **Dockerize Next.js**
    - Dockerfile for `apps/web`.
    - Production build and runtime config.

20) **Artifact Registry**
    - Push images for API and Web.

21) **Cloud Run deploy**
    - Deploy API + Web.
    - Configure env vars and secrets.

22) **Managed DB**
    - Provision Cloud SQL Postgres.
    - Apply migrations in CI/CD.

23) **CI pipeline**
    - Lint + build + test.
    - Docker build/push.
    - Deploy on main branch.

24) **Monitoring**
    - Cloud Logging + basic alerts.
    - Health check endpoints wired to uptime checks.

### Phase 4 — Production Readiness

25) **Async jobs**
    - Move extraction + Gemini to queue (BullMQ).
    - Add job status endpoints.

26) **Profile history**
    - UI to view and switch active profile version.

27) **Job ingestion**
    - Start with pasted URLs and manual entries.
    - Evaluate crawling/legal approach later.

28) **User account management**
    - Account settings and deletion flow.

29) **Deployment hardening**
    - Secrets manager usage.
    - Rate limits and abuse protection.

---

## License

MIT License. See `LICENSE`.

Commit message:

feat/ Implemented profile versioning with version + is_active

README.md, after:

﻿# Career Search Assistant Monorepo

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-active-success.svg)]()
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](/LICENSE)

---

## Purpose

This repository is a full-stack monorepo for a career search assistant. The backend (NestJS) handles authentication, user intake, document uploads to Google Cloud Storage (GCS), PDF text extraction, AI profile generation (Gemini via Vertex AI), and job matching. The admin frontend is React 19 + Vite. Shared packages include Drizzle ORM schemas, UI components, and lint/TS configs.

This README is designed to be the primary source of context for both humans and LLMs. It describes the current workflow, data model, endpoints, and development setup.

## System Architecture (High Level)

Core services:
- API (NestJS): auth, profile inputs, documents, extraction, AI profile, matching
- Worker service (planned): background jobs and scraping/ingestion
- Frontend (planned): Next.js app for user workflows

Scraping note:
- Job scraping will be a separate worker service, not part of the API monolith.
- The worker will ingest jobs, normalize them, and store them in the DB for matching.

## Service Communication and Data Flow

Architecture approach:
- **HTTP-driven for user actions** (Frontend → API).
- **Job/worker-driven for background tasks** (Worker → DB + storage).
- In early stages, keep it **request/response** for simplicity.
- As scale grows, move to **event-driven** (queue + jobs) for extraction and AI.

Primary data flow:
1) Frontend → API (profile input, upload URL, confirm, extract, generate, match).
2) API ↔ GCS (signed upload URL, confirm, download for extraction).
3) Worker → External sources (job ingestion).
4) Worker → DB (normalized jobs).
5) API → DB (fetch jobs for matching and UI display).

Suggested integration pattern:
- Use a queue (BullMQ / Cloud Tasks / Pub/Sub) for:
  - PDF extraction
  - Gemini generation
  - Crawling and job normalization
- API enqueues jobs; worker processes and updates DB.

## Operational Workflow

User-facing flow:
1) Login/Register
2) Submit profile input
3) Upload PDF → confirm
4) Extract text
5) Generate profile (markdown + JSON)
6) Score a job description or display matches

Background flow (worker):
1) Crawl job boards or ingest feeds
2) Normalize job records
3) Store in DB and mark ready for matching

Failure handling guidelines:
- Endpoints should be idempotent where possible.
- Background tasks should retry with backoff.
- Errors should be stored and surfaced to the frontend.

## Data Ownership and Boundaries

API-owned tables (source of truth):
- `users`, `profiles`, `profile_inputs`, `documents`, `career_profiles`
- These are created/updated by API endpoints only.

Worker-owned tables (planned):
- `jobs`, `job_sources`, `job_ingestion_runs`, `job_matches`
- These are created/updated by the worker service and consumed by the API.

Cross-service interactions:
- API reads `jobs` to show results and enable matching.
- Worker never modifies user/auth tables.

## Production Readiness Checklist

Secrets and config:
- Store service account keys and DB creds in a secrets manager.
- Never commit real keys to git.
- Keep separate envs for dev/staging/prod.

Monitoring and observability:
- Enable structured logs and central logging.
- Track background job failures with alerts.
- Add request tracing IDs to API logs.

Database operations:
- Migrations applied in CI/CD before deploy.
- Backups enabled for managed DB.
- Clear rollback plan for failed migrations.

Security:
- JWT secrets rotated periodically.
- Rate limit auth endpoints.
- Restrict CORS to allowed domains in production.

Scalability:
- Move extraction and AI generation to async jobs.
- Use queue-based backpressure to avoid overload.

## Scraping/Job Ingestion Plan (Worker Service)

Purpose:
- Ingest job postings from external sources (e.g., pracuj.pl) into the DB.
- Normalize fields so matching is consistent across sources.

Implementation outline:
1) **Crawler/Fetcher**
   - Fetch listings via allowed methods (public API, RSS, or HTML if permitted).
   - Respect robots.txt and ToS; add rate limits and caching.
2) **Parser**
   - Extract structured fields: title, company, location, salary, tech stack, apply link.
   - Normalize data (e.g., currency, location, seniority).
3) **Storage**
   - Write to `jobs` table and track in `job_ingestion_runs`.
   - Use `job_sources` to store source metadata (base URL, crawl rules).
4) **Scheduler**
   - Run on schedule (Cloud Scheduler → Pub/Sub → Worker).
   - Persist run status and failures for monitoring.

Recommended data schema (worker-owned):
- `jobs`: id, source_id, title, company, location, salary, description, url, tags, created_at, updated_at
- `job_sources`: id, name, base_url, crawl_rules, enabled
- `job_ingestion_runs`: id, source_id, started_at, finished_at, status, error

Notes:
- Start with manual job URLs or a single source for MVP.
- Only expand crawling after legal/ToS validation.

## Scraper Worker Starter Template (Node + Playwright)

Why Playwright:
- Works with dynamic pages and modern JS-heavy sites.
- Can simulate real browser behavior with rate control.

Suggested stack:
- Node.js + Playwright
- Cheerio (optional) for HTML parsing
- BullMQ / PubSub for scheduling and retries
- Zod for validation of extracted fields

Suggested folder layout:
```
worker/
  src/
    sources/
      pracuj-pl/
        crawl.ts        # page navigation
        parse.ts        # extract fields
        normalize.ts    # normalize data
    jobs/
      run-source.ts     # orchestrate one source
    db/
      client.ts         # db connection
    index.ts
```

Per-source workflows:
- Yes, each source should have its own workflow to match its HTML structure.
- Keep a thin, consistent interface:
  - `crawl(): rawHtml[]`
  - `parse(rawHtml): JobRecord`
  - `normalize(job): NormalizedJob`
- This isolates breakage when a site changes its layout.
--- 

## High-Level Workflow

1) User authenticates (JWT)
2) User submits profile input (target roles + notes)
3) User uploads PDF documents (CV/LinkedIn) to GCS via signed URL
4) User confirms upload
5) User extracts PDF text into DB
6) User generates a career profile (markdown + JSON)
7) User scores a job description using the profile JSON

---

## Repository Structure

```
apps/
  admin/               # Frontend admin panel (React 19 + Vite)
  api/                 # NestJS backend service
packages/
  db/                  # Drizzle schemas, migrations, seed scripts
  ui/                  # Shared React UI library (shadcn/ui)
  lint-config/         # Shared ESLint configuration
  ts-config/           # Shared TypeScript configurations
```

---

## Domain Model (Current)

Minimal, LLM-first model:

- User: authenticated identity
- ProfileInput: user intent (target roles + notes)
- Document: uploaded PDF metadata stored in GCS + extracted text
- CareerProfile: AI-generated markdown + JSON

Tables (simplified):
- profile_inputs: user_id, target_roles, notes
- documents: user_id, type, storage_path, original_name, mime_type, size, uploaded_at, extracted_text, extracted_at
- career_profiles: user_id, profile_input_id, document_ids, status, content, content_json, model, error
  - includes `version` and `is_active` for profile history

## Database Schema (High-Level)

Current tables (API-owned):
- `users` → `profiles` (1:1)
- `users` → `profile_inputs` (1:many)
- `users` → `documents` (1:many)
- `users` → `career_profiles` (1:many)
- `profile_inputs` → `career_profiles` (1:many)

Planned tables (worker-owned):
- `job_sources` (1:many) → `jobs`
- `job_ingestion_runs` (1:many) → `job_sources`
- `users` (1:many) → `job_matches` → (many:1) `jobs`

Ownership rules:
- The API owns user/profile data.
- The worker owns job ingestion data.
- Matching reads from both domains.

---

## API Overview

All API routes are prefixed by `/api` (see `API_PREFIX`). Examples are in `apps/api/api.http`.

Auth:
- POST `/auth/login`
- POST `/auth/register`
- POST `/auth/logout`
- POST `/auth/send-register-code`
- POST `/auth/send-reset-password-code`
- POST `/auth/change-password`
- POST `/auth/reset-password`

Profile input:
- POST `/profile-inputs`
- GET `/profile-inputs/latest`

Documents:
- POST `/documents/upload-url` (returns signed GCS URL + document record)
- PUT  `<signed upload url>` (upload PDF)
- POST `/documents/confirm` (verifies object exists in GCS)
- POST `/documents/extract` (download PDF, extract text into DB)
- POST `/documents/sync` (sync DB with actual GCS objects for user)
- DELETE `/documents/:id` (delete object in GCS and DB)
- GET `/documents` (optional `?type=CV|LINKEDIN|OTHER`)

Career profiles:
- POST `/career-profiles` (Gemini generation, stores markdown + JSON)
- GET `/career-profiles/latest`

Job matching:
- POST `/job-matching/score` (scores job description using profile JSON)

---

## Services and Modules

Backend modules (NestJS):
- AuthModule: login/register/reset flows
- ProfileInputsModule: stores target roles + notes
- DocumentsModule: GCS signed URLs, confirm, extract, sync, delete
- CareerProfilesModule: Gemini generation + storage
- JobMatchingModule: score job description using profile JSON
- GeminiModule: Vertex AI Gemini client
- GcsModule: GCS client wrapper

DB access:
- Drizzle ORM via `packages/db` and `@repo/db`

---

## AI Integration (Vertex AI)

Gemini is accessed through Vertex AI using service account credentials (OAuth). API key auth is not used in this setup.

Required:
- `GCP_PROJECT_ID`
- `GCP_LOCATION` (e.g., `us-central1`)
- Service account credentials (see env below)

Model:
- `GEMINI_MODEL=gemini-1.5-flash` (default)

If you get a 404 model error, switch to a region where the model is available (use `us-central1` as a safe default).

---

## Environment Variables

### apps/api/.env
Required:
- `DATABASE_URL`
- `ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET`
- `ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRATION`
- `REFRESH_TOKEN_SECRET`
- `REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRATION`
- `GCS_BUCKET`
- `GCP_PROJECT_ID`
- `GCP_LOCATION`

Optional (local service account direct values):
- `GCP_CLIENT_EMAIL`
- `GCP_PRIVATE_KEY`

Health:
- `DISK_HEALTH_THRESHOLD` (0-1)

Email:
- `MAIL_HOST`, `MAIL_PORT`, `MAIL_USERNAME`, `MAIL_PASSWORD`, `MAIL_SECURE`

Other:
- `HOST`, `PORT`, `NODE_ENV`, `ALLOWED_ORIGINS`, `API_PREFIX`

### packages/db/.env
- `DATABASE_URL`

---

## Local Development

### Install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/DmytroQasttor/Collarcity.git
cd Collarcity
pnpm install
```

### Configure .env

```bash
cp apps/api/.env.example apps/api/.env
cp apps/admin/.env.example apps/admin/.env
cp packages/db/.env.example packages/db/.env
```

Set `DATABASE_URL`, `GCP_PROJECT_ID`, `GCP_LOCATION`, and `GCS_BUCKET`.

### Start database

```bash
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

### Run migrations

```bash
pnpm --filter @repo/db generate
pnpm --filter @repo/db migrate
pnpm --filter @repo/db build
```

### Run backend only

```bash
pnpm --filter api start
```

### Run full dev

```bash
pnpm start
```

---

## GCS Upload Flow (Details)

1) `POST /documents/upload-url`
2) Upload PDF to signed URL (PUT)
3) `POST /documents/confirm`
4) `POST /documents/extract`

Use `apps/api/api.http` for sample requests.

---

## Career Profile Generation (Details)

- The prompt asks for markdown plus a JSON block.
- The JSON is stored in `career_profiles.content_json`.
- Job matching uses this JSON for quick scoring.

JSON schema:
```
{
  "summary": string,
  "coreSkills": string[],
  "preferredRoles": string[],
  "strengths": string[],
  "gaps": string[]
}
```

---

## Known Behaviors and Gotchas

- `GET /health` checks disk usage; set `DISK_HEALTH_THRESHOLD` if your drive is near full.
- `POST /documents/confirm` requires a valid UUID document ID.
- PDF extraction uses `pdf-parse`. Some minimal PDFs may fail; use real PDFs.
- Gemini requires Vertex AI credentials (service account) and correct region.

---

## Testing and Debugging

- API examples: `apps/api/api.http`
- Swagger (non-production): `/docs`
- Logs: `apps/api/logs/`

---

## Roadmap (Step-by-Step, Small Tasks)

Each task is scoped to ~300–500 LOC to keep changes focused.

### Phase 1 — Complete V1 Backend + DB

1) **Profile versioning**
   - Add `version` and `is_active` to `career_profiles`.
   - New profile increments version; previous active is set to false.
   - `GET /career-profiles/latest` returns active only.

2) **Profile JSON schema consistency**
   - Enforce JSON keys: `summary`, `coreSkills`, `preferredRoles`, `strengths`, `gaps`, `topKeywords`.
   - Validate shape and store parse errors in `career_profiles.error`.
   - Add `topKeywords` generation in prompt.

3) **Matching quality pass**
   - Weighted scoring (roles 40%, skills 40%, strengths 20%).
   - Add explanation field to response.
   - Optional `minScore` filter in request body.

4) **Document metadata management**
   - Add `GET /documents/:id`.
   - Add `PATCH /documents/:id` to update `type` and `originalName`.
   - Keep file immutable; only metadata changes.

5) **Extraction status**
   - Add `extraction_status` enum (PENDING/READY/FAILED).
   - Store parser errors in `documents.extracted_text` or separate `extraction_error`.

6) **Error response consistency**
   - Map errors to `code + message`.
   - Ensure 400 for validation, 404 for missing records, 500 for internal.

7) **Swagger pass**
   - Add DTO decorators and endpoint docs for all routes.
   - Include request/response examples.

8) **Security hardening**
   - Ensure JWT guard on all private endpoints.
   - Rate limit auth endpoints.
   - Validate CORS origins.

9) **DB migration cleanup**
   - Normalize column naming if needed.
   - Verify migrations are linear and committed.

### Phase 2 — Frontend (Next.js)

10) **Choose a frontend boilerplate**
    - Find a ready-to-go Next.js boilerplate with TanStack Query.
    - Prefer Tailwind + shadcn/ui.
    - Align structure with monorepo.

11) **Remove current admin app**
    - Delete `apps/admin`.
    - Update `pnpm-workspace.yaml` and `turbo.json`.

12) **Add Next.js app**
    - Create `apps/web` from the chosen boilerplate.
    - Keep TanStack Query as the main client state layer.
    - Wire workspace builds in Turbo.

13) **Auth UI (minimal)**
    - Login/Register screens.
    - JWT storage and session handling.
    - Minimal error states.

14) **Profile input UI**
    - Form for target roles + notes.
    - Show latest input and history.

15) **Document upload UI**
    - Upload via signed URL.
    - Confirm + extract actions.
    - Show status and errors.

16) **Profile generation UI**
    - Trigger generation.
    - Show markdown and JSON (collapsed).

17) **Job matching UI**
    - Paste job description.
    - Show score + explanation.

### Phase 3 — CI/CD + GCP

18) **Dockerize API**
    - Dockerfile + .dockerignore for `apps/api`.
    - Cloud Run compatible build.

19) **Dockerize Next.js**
    - Dockerfile for `apps/web`.
    - Production build and runtime config.

20) **Artifact Registry**
    - Push images for API and Web.

21) **Cloud Run deploy**
    - Deploy API + Web.
    - Configure env vars and secrets.

22) **Managed DB**
    - Provision Cloud SQL Postgres.
    - Apply migrations in CI/CD.

23) **CI pipeline**
    - Lint + build + test.
    - Docker build/push.
    - Deploy on main branch.

24) **Monitoring**
    - Cloud Logging + basic alerts.
    - Health check endpoints wired to uptime checks.

### Phase 4 — Production Readiness

25) **Async jobs**
    - Move extraction + Gemini to queue (BullMQ).
    - Add job status endpoints.

26) **Profile history**
    - UI to view and switch active profile version.

27) **Job ingestion**
    - Start with pasted URLs and manual entries.
    - Evaluate crawling/legal approach later.

28) **User account management**
    - Account settings and deletion flow.

29) **Deployment hardening**
    - Secrets manager usage.
    - Rate limits and abuse protection.

---

## License

MIT License. See `LICENSE`.
